So with that in mind, let's get back
into the topic of our content and
the creation of our content.
As you may remember,
we were talking about content blocks and
that every content block is gonna
have a heading, a smooth description.
Normally in my experience,
about 160 characters, something like that.
So quite short and snappy.
An optional link to more information
if you want it and an option or
image if it's appropriate.
Now the question is,
how do you write a good heading?
How do you write a good description?
And that is as much an art as a science,
if I'm honest.
And it's something that only
comes with practice and
with testing in order to work
out what works and what doesn't.
But there are some advice that I can give
you about creating good headings and
good body copy, and some tools that
might potentially help as well.
So let's talk about creating
compelling headlines.
One of the tools that I use to kind
of help me think about the structure
of my headlines is CoSchedule's
headline analyzer.
If you do a quick Google on CoSchedule and
headline analyzer,
it will come back and
you can try it out for yourself.
It's a free tool,
at least to try out initially.
Now, I'm not saying that you should
use this as the ultimate tool for
creating headlines, but
it's rather guidance.
It gets you thinking in
the right kind of ways.
And what it does is effectively
analyze a variety of different factors
associated with the headline
you're creating.
And it will then incorporate that and
take that data and
turn it into a score, so
it will score your headlines.
Now the score is only limited use really.
But what it does is it breaks down how
it went about producing that score.
It will talk about things like
the kinds of words you use.
The kinds of style of headline it was.
The kind of length of it.
It's scanability.
All these different factors that kind of
help shape your headlines and create them.
So, for example,
if you wanna create a compelling headline,
you wanna use some emotional words or
power words,
which are a particular wordings that tends
to gain people's attention and interest.
So for example,
something like success is a word that
tends to kind of grab us and pull us in.
It also looks at things like sentiment.
Do you wanna go negative in
the way that you're speaking?
Or do you wanna remain positive?
I generally heavily favor positive
headlines because when you
start looking at negative headlines,
again, you start to more and
more move into the world of dark patterns.
So by way of example, let's look
at some different headline types.
You can use fear, right?
You can talk about not
getting left behind.
But then again, what we're doing is,
we're using negative factors and
connotations in order to motivate people,
which almost always backfires and is bad.
I always look in my copy to build
people up, but not to pull them down.
So another example which goes back to
the whole conversation we were having
about the dieting app that I
mentioned earlier, is guilt, right?
A lot of people write headlines
that use guilt in order to
encourage people to make decisions.
And all of these kinds of approaches
are not really very uplifting.
They're not building up the user.
They're not creating
a positive brand impression.
And in my opinion, should be avoided.
Yes they will provide short
term conversion boosts, but
the health of the long
term brand reputation and
just customer satisfaction and
things like that.
But there are headlines
you can use that have got
emotional weight to them
that are much more positive.
Trust, right?
Headlines that talk
about no hidden costs or
really emphasize how you're
trustworthy and reliable.
Get trusted by big brands such as,
those kinds of things.
That's much more positive in its tone and
tends to resonate with people much better.
Then there are ones that focus on value.
You won't find a better deal anywhere.
So people like the idea that they're
getting value from the transaction in
the interaction.
You've got headlines that
talk about the competition.
Again, this one's a bit of a gray one
because you can play this in a fun way,
like be the envy of your neighbors,
quite tongue in cheek.
But also, it could quite easily
turn negative if you let it.
So you've gotta be a little
bit careful with that.
Gonna have headlines that
emphasize senses of belonging,
join today to find out what
people have been talking about.
So the idea of community and belonging,
which is a big motivator for people.
Instant rewards,
everybody loves an instant reward.
So speak to us today for instant
peace of mind or to instant access or
that kind of thing.
Can have headings that talk about
build you up as a leader or
as an innovator or as an early adopter.
Those kinds of things,
which resonates with certain groups.
And then you can talk about time,
saving people time.
Time is, so
when I was talking about performance,
I was saying how impatient people are.
And it's because people
value their time these days.
When you're writing a value proposition or
anything like that, if you emphasize
that you can save people time,
they tend to respond extremely well to it.
Those are just a random set of examples to
kinda get you thinking as you write your
copy, to provide some kind of emotional
content behind there as well.
Now again,
you have to find the balance here.
Find what is right for your audience.
So things like AB testing work really well
on headlines to find out what resonates.
Because we don't wanna annoy people.
We don't want to make them feel
manipulated or out of place.
So for example,
very hugely my audience for
example on my own website are very
digitally savvy, they're very tech savvy.
And to be honest,
they're very cynical, right?
And so I have to really be careful
not to push these kinds of,
rely too heavily on emotion because
it actually alienates my audience.
But with a different audience,
that's what they want.
They want to feel engaged and listened to
and have an emotional connection there.
That's why user research is so important.
But let's talk about some practicalities,
to move away a little bit from the kind of
marketing side of content to some of
the more practical side of things.
For a start,
let's talk about content scannability.
As we've already said, right?
Most people do not read your copy,
they scan it.
And so we wanna facilitate that and
enable that and
make our content as scannable as possible.
And there are essentially
two ways we can do this.
One is how we structure our content and
the other is how we write our content.
I'll come to structure in a little bit,
but let's talk about writing your content.
Writing for
the web is different because people
are just scanning through it very quickly.
And that means that it needs
to be incredibly simple and
very easy to scan through.
And there are certain things
we can do to achieve that.
So for example, we can avoid using
jargon or unfamiliar terminology.
But we can also use shorter
sentence structures.
And we can avoid too many adverbs and
things like that.
Now if like me, you're not particularly
good at doing that kind of stuff
naturally, then instead what you can do
is, you can use a tool like Hemingway app.
And Hemingway app is a free
online tool that you can use.
You enter your content into it,
it scans it.
It makes suggestions about how you
can shorten it and improve it and
make it more scannable.
It'll also give you
a readability level and
tell you whether that is good or not good.
So it's a really good sanity checker for
the copy that you write.
And there are other tools out there like
that for example, I use Grammarly a lot.
But what I like about Hemingway app
is that it's very much designed for
reading on the web.
It's quite aggressive
in its suggestions and
quite unforgiving about things like
long sentences or lots of conjunctions.
So lots of ands and
commas and things like that.
So just run your draft
copy through that and
you'll find that it'll become a lot
more scannable and easy to digest.
But it's not just about writing in plain
language and being as concise as possible.
It's also about how we then
structure that information.
There's a lot of usability
experts that will tell you
that your copy has to be short, right?
And that isn't strictly true, okay?
It has to be concise, but
that's two different things, right?
Concise is,
it's got to be as short as it can be and
still get the point across.
And sometimes you need more words
to be able to explain something.
Is just the nature of the beast, right?
And so don't be afraid to do that.
But what you need to avoid is copy that
includes what Steve Kruger in his book,
Don't Want Me Think called, happy talk.
And that's content that
doesn't really add any value.
But it's things like hey,
welcome to our site and stuff like that,
which just doesn't help
answer anybody's questions.
See, remove that kind of thing.
And also remove repetition.
So when we're trying to convince
somebody in an argument,
we often say the same thing in slightly
different ways in the hope that one
of those things will land with people.
But actually online, that just creates
noise that people have to struggle and
process pushing their cognitive load
up putting them in the worst mood,
that means that less likely to convert.
So be to the point, but that doesn't
mean you need to be super short.
However, if you are producing more copy,
right?
If maybe you're given a lot
of copy to work with and
you don't have the freedom to shorten it.
Or if it's just appropriate for
there to be more copy, what you then need
to do is structure that content in
such a way as to aid scannability.
So by way of an example,
here's one of my blog posts.
And my blog posts are,
if you look at them, use lots of headings,
lots of bullet points,
lots of pull out quotes.
So I highlight different bits of content.
Also that someone could just scan down
the page, look at the various headlines,
get a feel for what that paragraph or
that section is gonna be about.
And then maybe scan a few lines if
they feel that it's relevant to them.
I grab their attention with things
like pull out quotes and highlights.
Everything is built around the fact that
someone is just gonna scan this page and
look at different bits as they go along.
So break your content down.
We'll get into this more about actually
how to do this when we talk about design.
But for now,
you can take any piece of content and
make it a lot easier to consume and
scan simply by breaking it up,
chunking it, adding highlights,
that kind of thing.
So that's about making it scannable.
The other piece of advice I would give
you, which I mentioned when we were
talking about building trust earlier,
is to make your copy more human.
Now you may remember I shared
with you a little bit of text,
which I compared to Silence of the Lambs.
Which said, as well as insurance students
make the most of their potential through
their academic studies,
the University of Essex also provides
an environment which caters for
all the needs of its students through
providing a range of accommodation,
catering facilities, an active
students union, sports and the arts.
That is a terrible piece of text.
I said earlier,
it's terrible because it used the third
person rather than first person.
So it talked about the University
of Essex rather than we.
It talked about the students
rather than you.
But it's also bad because it's a one
sentence and it's really hard to scan.
There is nothing good about this.
So I thought by way of an example
let me very quickly rewrite it.
Student life is about
more than just studying.
We support you with everything you're
looking for or you'll be looking for.
From accommodation and catering
through to an active student union,
great sports facilities, and
an engaging arts program.
So there's a couple of
things that I've done there.
One is, obviously, I've changed
the students to you and university to we.
But also I've done more than that.
I've broken it down so
that it's multiple sentences.
And the very beginning of that sentence
notice that I say, student life is about
more than just studying, which effectively
sums up everything that follows.
Now that's called front loading.
It's getting to the point quickly.
And then basically I could
go even further than this.
And where it says we support you with
everything you'll be looking for.
Then where it says accommodations,
catering, active student use, sports and
an arts program.
You could have those as bullets,
which would make it even more scannable.
So you can take the same piece of content,
say the same thing in a more
concise easier way of scanning it.
And that is what your clients and your
stakeholders and your marketing execs and
all of the other people you're dealing
with do not understand very well,
generally speaking.
And this is what you can
bring to the table as
you work with them on
creating their websites.
That you can contribute with content,
even if content isn't really
the thing that you do.
And you have a fundamental role play in
educating stakeholders and your clients.
And also maybe producing
the first draft of your content.
Another thing.
>> Sorry, I would say for developers who
are wanting to upgrade their career and
whenever, writing blog posts and
getting used to writing,
is just incredibly important for
developing your career.
As well as if you're ever wanting to sell
courses and all those kinds of things.
Developers speaking to other
developers is really the only
way that that's gonna happen.
Whereas when you're
speaking to that audience,
you kind of have to have empathy for
that audience.
>> Absolutely, and
I started blogging in 2005.
And I started writing content
to share with my peers,
to share with other people what I
was doing, what I was learning.
And I was rubbish at writing, right?
I failed GCSE English.
I'm just not particularly good at that,
my spelling and my grammar is atrocious.
But by only blogging,
by sharing my experiences,
I got comfortable with writing.
Even if it wasn't very good and
if you can still to this day go back and
read some of my early blog posts and
they're terrible.
But it got me comfortable with writing.
And then over time,
you begin to learn certain patterns
that work better with people.
So experiment, try it out,
learn it for yourself.
If you wanna promote a little
side project you've got.
Trying these techniques and
you'll be amazed at the difference it
makes to people's level of engagement.
To the feedback that you get, and
to the number of people taking action.